->Internet Information Service:(IIS):
IIS is a windows component that work as a webserver.
-just open control panel-> program and services ->trun windows features on or off-> Internet information service.
________________
Key Features of IIS:
Web Server: It allows the hosting of websites and web applications on Windows servers.
FTP Server: IIS can be used to transfer files over the FTP (File Transfer Protocol).
Application Pooling: Provides a way to isolate applications for better security, reliability, and performance.
Security: Supports encryption, authentication, and authorization, ensuring secure hosting.
Logging and Monitoring: IIS provides detailed logging and monitoring features, which are crucial for tracking traffic and diagnosing issues.
Common Uses of IIS:
Hosting websites and web applications.
Running ASP.NET applications.
Configuring FTP servers for file transfer.
Managing API endpoints and web services.
Setting up security configurations like SSL certificates and permissions.
How to Install IIS on a Windows Server:
If you're looking to set up IIS on a Windows server, here's how to do it:

For Windows 10 or Windows Server:
Open Control Panel:
Type "Control Panel" in the Windows search bar and click on it.
Turn Windows Features On/Off:
In the Control Panel, go to Programs → Turn Windows features on or off.
Enable IIS:
In the Windows Features dialog box, check the box next to Internet Information Services. You can expand it to select additional features like FTP server or Web Management Tools if needed.
Install:
Click OK, and Windows will install IIS. This may take a few minutes.
Access IIS:
Once installed, you can open the Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager from the Start menu.
Checking if IIS is Installed:
After installation, open IIS Manager and you’ll see a list of your sites and server configurations.
If you navigate to http://localhost in a browser, you should see the default IIS page indicating that the web server is working.
Managing Websites on IIS:
To manage websites, you’ll use the IIS Manager. Some common tasks include:

Creating a new website by specifying a directory to serve the site’s content.
Configuring bindings (e.g., setting up port numbers and domain names).
Setting security settings for authentication (Windows, Basic, etc.).
Enabling or disabling modules for security or functionality.____________________

The process of installing IIS (Internet Information Services) varies slightly depending on the version of Windows you're using and whether you're using the GUI (Graphical User Interface) or a Core installation (command-line interface). Here's a breakdown of the differences:

1. Installing IIS Feature on Windows 10
On Windows 10, IIS is installed as a "feature," not a "role." This means it is simply a set of features you enable, and it can be done via the Control Panel or PowerShell.

Steps:

Using Control Panel:

Open the Control Panel.
Go to Programs > Turn Windows features on or off.
Scroll down and check Internet Information Services.
Click OK, and Windows will install IIS.
Using PowerShell:

Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName IIS-ServerRole
This will install IIS with some default features. You can customize the features from the Control Panel by selecting additional IIS components.

2. Installing IIS Role on Windows Server 2012 (GUI)
On Windows Server 2012, IIS is installed as a role. Server versions include different management tools for installing roles like IIS, and the GUI (Server Manager) simplifies the process.

Steps (via GUI):

Open Server Manager.
In the Manage menu, click Add Roles and Features.
Click Next through the wizard until you reach the Select Server Roles page.
Select Web Server (IIS) and click Next.
Choose any additional IIS features you need.
Follow the prompts to complete the installation, then click Install.
The installation wizard allows you to install not only the IIS role but also to select which IIS features to install (e.g., Web Server, FTP Server, Management Tools).

Steps (via PowerShell):

Install-WindowsFeature -Name Web-Server -IncludeManagementTools
3. Installing IIS Feature on Windows Server 2012 Core Edition
Windows Server 2012 Core does not have a GUI, so everything must be done via command-line tools like PowerShell or Server Manager from another machine.

Steps (via PowerShell):

Open a PowerShell session and run:

Install-WindowsFeature -Name Web-Server -IncludeManagementTools
This command installs the Web Server (IIS) feature along with the necessary management tools to manage IIS remotely (if required).
Additional Notes:

In the Core edition, Server Manager cannot be used directly. Instead, everything is done remotely or via PowerShell commands.
The process is essentially the same as on the GUI version of Server 2012, but it's done entirely via command-line interfaces (CLI).
Summary of Differences:
Windows 10 uses a feature-based installation, either via the GUI in Control Panel or PowerShell.
Windows Server 2012 (GUI) uses the Add Roles and Features Wizard to install IIS as a "role" via the GUI (Server Manager).
Windows Server 2012 Core installs IIS via PowerShell commands since there is no GUI interface for the Core edition.
 