A proxied server typically refers to a server that is used as an intermediary between clients (e.g., web browsers) and backend servers. A "proxy" in general means a system that acts on behalf of another system. In the context of web servers, this intermediary server performs various tasks such as forwarding requests, filtering traffic, and providing caching.

There are two main types of proxy servers commonly used with web servers like Nginx:

1. Forward Proxy:
A forward proxy sits between clients and the internet, handling requests from the client and forwarding them to the appropriate destination server.
It can hide client IP addresses from the destination server (used for privacy) or filter content.
It is not typically used with Nginx directly, but sometimes Nginx can be configured to work as a forward proxy.
2. Reverse Proxy:
A reverse proxy is a server that sits between client requests and one or more backend servers. When a client makes a request, it sends the request to the reverse proxy, which then forwards it to an appropriate backend server and returns the response to the client.

Nginx is most commonly used as a reverse proxy server.

In this case, Nginx takes the client request and forwards it to one or more backend servers (like an application server or database server). The backend servers process the request, generate a response, and send it back to Nginx. Nginx then sends the final response to the client.

Why Use a Reverse Proxy (Proxied Server)?
Load Balancing: A reverse proxy can distribute client requests across multiple backend servers to balance the load, ensuring better performance and fault tolerance.
Security: It can hide the identity and internal structure of backend servers. Clients interact with the reverse proxy only, which can provide an additional layer of security.
Caching: It can cache content on behalf of the backend servers, reducing the load on them and speeding up response times for clients.
SSL Termination: The reverse proxy can handle the SSL/TLS encryption and decryption for secure HTTPS communication, offloading the work from backend servers.
Centralized Access Control: It can act as a central point to enforce access controls, monitor traffic, and apply security policies.
Example of Reverse Proxy Setup with Nginx:
In a typical reverse proxy setup, Nginx can be configured to receive requests from clients and forward them to a backend server (like an application server). Here's an example of how you might configure Nginx as a reverse proxy:

server {
    listen 80;
    server_name example.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://backend-server:8080;  # Forward requests to the backend server
        proxy_set_header Host $host;            # Preserve the host header
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;  # Pass the client's real IP
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;  # Pass the forwarded IP
    }
}
In this example:

Nginx listens for requests on port 80 for example.com.
When a request is made to the root path (/), Nginx forwards it to http://backend-server:8080 (which could be an application server running on port 8080).
The proxy_set_header directives ensure that the client’s real IP address and other important headers are passed to the backend server.
Summary:
Nginx is a powerful web server and reverse proxy server used for serving static content, load balancing, security, caching, and more.
A proxied server (in the context of Nginx) refers to a server acting as an intermediary, forwarding client requests to other backend servers (reverse proxy). This setup is often used to improve security, manage load, and optimize server performance.